With that job defined,
we can start a commit, which means we save it
and we add it to this repository,
and I'll just commit it like this,
and we create a commit here because, keep in mind,
this is in a file which is in a sub-folder
in another folder in our repository,
so we technically added it to this project's code,
therefore we technically created a commit.
And that's really important.
GitHub Action workflows are part of your code.
You define them in files that reside in your Git repository.
This is not something that's outside of the Git repository,
instead it's defined in a file in your Git repository
in your code and project.
And now with that workflow added like this,
we can go back to the Actions tab,
and now the look of this tab changed.
Now here we get an overview of past workflow runs,
which will, of course, populate
as soon as we have workflows that run from time to time.
We can still add a new workflow if you want to
but we also have a list of all the workflows
that were identified by GitHub,
and those are identified by GitHub
looking into this .github/workflows folder
and then into the YAML files it finds there.
So here I have this first workflow,
which is that name I gave my workflow,
and you see that GitHub identifies
that this workflow has a workflow dispatch trigger,
and that's why we can dispatch and trigger it manually
by clicking this button.
If we wouldn't have added this workflow dispatch event,
this button would not show up here,
but since we did so, we can now click this button
to run this workflow against the main branch,
doesn't matter, it's the only branch we have here,
and now this Workflow will be executed.
Now, as soon as you start running a workflow,
you can also go back to this Actions tab,
or eventually it should also update automatically,
and you see your workflow run here.
And this yellow dot which you saw briefly
indicates that it's currently running,
and then this green check mark tells us
that it executed successfully.
You can also click on this workflow here,
and you'll then see more details about this workflow.
For example, you see that for this workflow file
and this event, we had this job that was executed,
which in this case is the only job
that belongs to this workflow,
and we can also click on this job for more details.
And in here we see the different steps,
the two steps we defined
and some steps that are executed automatically,
a Setup and a Cleanup step,
and we can expand these steps
to get more details about them.
For example, we see that in the Setup step
that was added automatically,
the runner system is basically set up.
In the Complete step, we see that some cleanup was done,
and then in the two steps we defined,
we see the command that we executed
and then the result of that command.
And, of course, the same is true for Print goodbye.
Here we see more details
about how this command was executed.
And that's how we can define and execute our first workflow
and how we can also then evaluate the details
of that workflow execution.
And, of course, we can run this workflow
as often as we want.
So if I go to my workflow again here on the left,
I can trigger it again, just as often as I want to.